It's 9:00 a.m. in Shanghai, [music]
Shenzhen, and here in Hong Kong. You're
watching The China Show. I'm David
Ingles here in Hong Kong.
>> [music]
>> And I'm April Hong in Singapore. We're
counting down to the open of markets in
the greater China region. Our top
stories, Asian stocks rising to start
the week [music] as optimism over chip
makers offsets fears over Iran and the
continued closure of the Strait of
Hormuz. Deep Seek previews the highly
anticipated update to its flagship
[music]
AI model powered by homegrown chips.
We'll discuss how it stacks up against
rivals Open AI and Anthropic. Also on
the program, a 31-year-old [music]
man to face court on Monday over the
Washington shooting that was said to be
targeting Trump administration
officials, [music]
although an exact motive remains
unclear. And we hear from South Korean
Trade Minister Yeo [music] Han-koo on
the government's efforts to reduce its
reliance on Middle East energy imports.
>> [music]
>> Good morning. Welcome to the program. We
start things off and we thought it was
going to be quiet. Some breaking news
crossing right now. We were supposed to
be talking about developments or the
lack of it in as far as the
uh
conversations and negotiations between
the US and Iran are concerned. Now, we
understand based on this report just
coming through right now as I speak, in
fact, that Iran has now offered the US a
new proposal, uh April, to reopen that
straits
um that they
based on how these headlines are
phrased, it looks like that plan
uh is has been
uh has been passed via the mediators, uh
Pakistani mediators.
Uh this new proposal, uh we are seeing
some market reaction already to this.
Uh, I mean, we were looking effectively
at equity markets sideways, slightly to
the upside, but yes, we are looking at a
pop right now, April. What are you
seeing?
>> We're seeing Brent. I mean, we're
dropping below the 107 handle to around
106.50, right? So, I think quite a clear
reaction as far as these Iran
developments are concerned. Of course,
this is following on from a weekend
where we saw Trump basically telling his
top negotiators, "Hey, don't bother
heading for those talks with Iran." So,
this is quite a turn of events. Of
course, amid the geopolitics, we're also
continuing to track what's happening
this week. We have a big week in terms
of earnings, of course. And this is a
week where on the S&P 500, I think about
$16 trillion worth of market cap and
companies linked to that market cap are
actually reporting. So, your Amazons,
your Apple, Meta, Microsoft, right? And
of course, they'll also be going to, I
guess, confront um, the
um, growth narrative that we've been
seeing very secular that's coming
through. So, perhaps that feeds further
into what we're seeing in the stocks
climb in a week where we also have
central banks on tap. This is a rare
week, one in which all G7 central banks
will be convening. So, that's not
something we see very often, and they're
all going to have to confront, indeed,
um, you know, the war-driven inflation
shock, David.
>> Yeah, and they're likely not going to
tell us everything is going to be okay,
I think, in the vocabulary of monetary
policy. When you talk about the word
stock, it's really stock of stock piles,
things like inventory of oil, and not so
much the stock market, which has,
really, when you look at it on an index
level, in fact, there's another headline
crossing. The MSCI Emerging Markets
Index is at a record high right now. On
an index level, it doesn't seem that the
market is completely
uh, bothered at all by the lack of
progress when it comes to Iran. In fact,
just this latest headline alone, that
there is a new proposal, simply
bolstering the equity side of the story
even further, more than the reaction
we're seeing
uh in the energy markets, which I think
when you look at it, you know, tell us
when we have a deal and then we'll take
oil below uh 85 is I think fairly apt
given uh everything else that's going on
as we speak. But all that is to say uh
the earning story will probably tell us
a lot about this AI rally. The central
bank story will tell us about the real
economy and how those two themes
converge this week. Will be really an
interesting dynamic to watch as markets
continue uh to hit new highs. We talked
about Taiwan, 40,000, 3% to the upside.
TSMC's coming up as well. Let's bring
that up, guys, if we can. Of course,
that removal in the cap on Friday really
boosting that stock on 10 to 25%
uh in terms of single stock exposure.
And just to also mention the other big
AI story, which is Samsung this week.
So, we had that blowout set of earnings,
prelim earnings a few weeks back. The
company will be breaking that down for
us this week.
And what really went into that massive
number, 50 trillion. Uh we're up 2% on
Samsung. Okay. Uh let's put all those
things together for you. Joining us here
in set, Charlotte Yang, our Asia
equities reporter. Why don't we start
with the big earnings week ahead?
>> Yes, so it is an action-packed for A
Asia Pacific earnings. You have the
busiest week of the season with over 400
MSCI Asia Pacific index members
reporting. And you know, all earning
season matter, but I think this one
particularly stands out because it is a
first window investors can gauge the
impact from the Iran war. Um so, some
sectors that are in focus including oil,
you know, defensive that are seen as
benefiting on from the conflict, but
also on the transport side, for example,
airlines. There'll be a lot of
attentions on, for example, Air China's
Air China's results as well as what what
they're going to say given these Chinese
airline. They don't usually hedge the
oil. And also, you'll be watching how
consumer companies, how are they coping
with these raw material price increases.
So, a lot of attention will be on how
their profitability will hold up. And if
you look at MSCI Asia Pacific index
gained 12% this year, outperforming a
lot of their Wall Street peers. And but
now investors' attentions are
all back into earnings, all back to the
profit outlook. So, what the companies
will see at these earnings call will
really matter.
>> Charlotte, what else are we watching in
terms of sectors in China specifically?
I mean, we are hearing about some of
these gig economy worker rules being
formalized, and authorities also seem a
bit more concerned about the finance
industry, the so-called involution
there.
>> Yes, so I think for this week earnings
front, key sector to watch is Chinese
autos. Obviously, investors are still
busy concluding the Beijing Auto Show,
but all the attentions now are shifting
back to earnings. You have a sector
bellwether BYD reporting on Tuesday, and
also Geely reporting its aspiring
challenger reporting on Wednesday. And
so, for Chinese auto sector, it's
already pretty well known that the
overseas growth is so strong, especially
since Iran war. You're seeing those
showrooms, for example, in Southeast
Asia bustling. But for these earnings,
what matters is how much how
meaningfully actually can those overseas
sales cushion the domestic headwinds.
So, for BYD, we're expecting them to
report a third consecutive quarter of
decline in both sales and net and net
income. And for Geely, even though sales
is showing strong momentum, its net
income is also likely to show a
shrinking profit pool. So, I think what
this shows is that, you know, even the
overseas story is so strong, but how
much how much money does these Chinese
EV makers actually make per vehicle?
That will matter. And for domestic,
you're still seeing price discounts for
those new models. And if you consider
the higher raw material cost, it is
pretty significant pressure on their
earnings. And uh Great Wall already had
those results, and you're saying I think
the net income dropping to a 4-year low
due to foreign exchange losses and some
tax rebates. So, BYD and Geely's
earnings will be will have broad
implications for the A at China China
auto sector.
>> Uh Charlotte, the you look at the
benchmark, you talked about this.
They're up what, 12% this year on the
Asian benchmark. It's very misleading to
think that the economies are doing well.
Talk to us about this piece you guys
wrote on this is mostly, if not all, AI.
>> Yes, so definitely for Asia, we are
seeing AI a whole AI trade giving so
boosting so much of the index
performance. And I think two two country
markets that's two markets that
particularly stand out is Taiwan and
South Korea. So, you have Taiwan have
over has overtook
UK in terms of market cap earlier this
month. And South Korea is just steps
away. And this if you look at it, it's
mainly concentrated in three stocks,
TSMC, Hynix, and Samsung. And that's
mainly because of, you know, investors
buying on the structural story for the
AI. And then they will need you will you
will be needing these chip makers,
memory makers to continue empowering it.
So, I think a lot of the concentration
risk is definitely on people's mind. And
you know, where is Taiwan's regulators
just relaxing that single cap rule?
That's for sure a positive for TSMC and
also some of the you know, smaller
stocks there like MediaTek and Delta.
But that's well,
inevitably, I think make weight more
concentrated on in the semiconductor
place.
>> All right, Charlotte, yeah, thank you so
much. Our Asia equities reporter global
stocks at a record.
So, fewer than 5% of the benchmark are
actually at 52-week highs. Let that sink
in. Right, speaking of the change and we
talked about the delta there with
Charlotte. Just have a look visual look
at Brent
off highs, S&P futures off the lows of
the day in reaction to this Axios report
here that this new proposal is on the
table to reopen the straight. What the
two sides make of that what will the
other side makes of that on the [music]
US side of things
is something of course we still have to
wait and see. That's the news for now.
Counting down to the open of trade, we
are getting some more momentum going
[music] into the Monday session.
Shanghai, Shenzhen and here in Hong Kong
the opening bell 20 minutes away. Good
morning. You're watching [music] the
China show.
>> [music]
>> All right, welcome back. So here's a
look at the I think busy is an
understatement [music]
in as far as what is on deck this week.
Um
a lot of decisions. Um most if not all I
believe are expected to at least the
major ones expected to
not move on rates but certainly it's
going to be the context and how they
frame and it really is the incentive to
sound hawkish, right? Does it cost
anything to sound hawkish?
At this point in time plus of course you
have a lot of economic numbers set to
come through as well. Uh that's the
macro story for you and of course gets
us into the PMI numbers coming out of
China later uh later this week. The
other thing to keep an eye on this week
is this confirmation of course of the
Fed chair and of course given everything
else that's been taking place. You have
US Senator of course Tom uh Tillis says
that he is dropping of course his
opposition to Kevin Warsh's nomination
as the next Fed chair. Now he did say
that the Justice Department's decision
to end a criminal investigation into the
current chair Jay Powell then removes a
threat to the Central Bank's
independence. Now the move does set the
stage for a faster confirmation of Warsh
to succeed Powell whose term ends
the middle
of next month. Right, just a brief look
at markets, bond markets specifically,
right? Here's the global benchmark on
the Bloomberg terminal. Uh and as you
can see, since the peak back right
before the war started, and then you
have all these inflation stagflation
fears sweeping through markets, hitting
us uh towards the low side of things,
we've actually recovered about halfway
back on price on global bonds. Not all
the way back, clearly, but we've
recovered about halfway back uh in as
far as the bond story is concerned.
Going into April, a fairly consequential
week for fixed income.
>> Yeah, as you said, recovering about
halfway back, and it's also an asset
class, right, fixed income overall, that
has underperformed versus stocks, to
some extent FX as well. Joining us now
from Singapore is Rachna Mehta, co-head
of regional fixed income at Maybank
Asset Management. Rachna, good to have
you in the studio on a day like that,
because we are seeing further
developments of this Fed succession
drama in a big week for central bank
decisions, earnings as well to some
extent, and then these headlines
crossing the terminal about Iran putting
a proposal potentially on offer in a way
that could perhaps give us a bit more
conclusion
on the war. How do you read this when it
comes to global debt markets?
>> I think, yes, global debt market have
not performed well this year, but if you
look at in terms of credit market,
they've at least still given a positive
return. If you look at the Asian
benchmark indexes, they are all up about
half a percent to 1%. Of course, we are
expecting a solid return this year
thinking that Fed was going to cut two
times, but because of the war, we have
seen a pullback in fixed income, but I'm
still positive that as long as you are
buying 5 to 6-year bonds, you can still
get positive return about 5 to 6% this
year just from a carry perspective.
Because the rates are still very, very
high, correct? So, generally, when
market looks at that, they say, "Okay, I
still I'm getting a good return
if I put in bonds." So, that's what we
are seeing it, but definitely in terms
of duration, we've seen some volatility,
whether it's 10 years or 30 years, but
for personally I am positive. I know a
lot of people are talking about
steepener trades, but for me I prefer
flatter trades because I do believe that
if central banks are hawkish given
higher oil prices, then you know,
investors will start looking at saying,
"Okay, let let us buy the long end." And
long end still offers value. We have
seen a 30-year US Treasury not breaking
like 5.1, 5.2%. So as of now it's still
in a range. So for us personally, if it
breaks above five around five, 5.1,
we'll start adding duration.
>> The thing is we are expecting central
banks to perhaps reiterate that, you
know, we don't know at this stage. The
developments in the past 10 minutes or
so just reiterate that point. So how
much conviction can there be then in any
part of the curve?
>> Absolutely. I totally agree with you,
but at some point, you see, we have US
midterm elections. So we have we have
I'm not sure that I'm 100% confident,
but at least the war has to come to some
kind of solution. Maybe a ceasefire for
the next 6 months or 9 months until
because I don't think this is going to
completely get over, but at least you'll
have some kind of solution between US
and Iran and other forces in
Middle East. So I do believe that, yes,
you may not have a conclusion. At some
point there'll be demand destruction
against inflation. Correct? There's a
big fight or a pull and push whether
demand destruction is going to happen. I
definitely think that if next 1 month
this state of homas is closed, we are
definitely going to see demand
destruction in Asia, which may percolate
to the rest of the world, whether it's
Europe and US. So I feel that push and
pull will keep the bond market where it
is.
>> I'm glad you highlight the dynamic
between US and perhaps Europe and Asia
as well because there is a sense that
the US is a bit more energy independent,
and because of that, does that also
allow the Fed to be a bit less hawkish
than other central banks? How does that
perhaps affect the performance of US
government debt versus what you're
seeing globally?
>> Okay. So so far I feel actually
everybody is following US debt market,
but if you look at from Asian
perspective despite currency being very
weak, actually recently we saw
Philippine raising rates. Even Australia
is raising rates, correct? If you look
at within Asia as of now we are seeing
that people are trying to keep the
currency stable. So I do expect
Philippines to raise some more rates.
Australia also to raise rates. So from
that perspective I think our currencies
are still like last crisis our currency
will weaken a lot more, but if you look
at from an Asian currency but they're
holding at least better and especially
North Asian currencies like Singapore
dollar, Taiwan dollar, RMB also is a big
thing which we have seen strong correct
this year despite the rates being low.
So I think China is acting as an anchor
for Asian currencies from that
perspective and that's why I think
central banks are not in a hurry to
raise rates. They're going to watch out
whether it's Europe or whether it is
some of the Asian central banks. So I do
believe that yes US markets have like
all the world have done the same in
terms of the rate market, but I think
from a long term perspective I think
people start focusing on deficit, the
fiscal deficit and the war cost for the
US. So I I feel that generally I I do
prefer Singapore dollar compared to US
bond market because of safety and all,
but given that 5 5.1% 30 years still
looks attractive from a medium term
perspective.
>> For EMs,
how ready are central banks there to act
though? I mean
you raised the Philippine example as
one. The next time they're meeting
is in June.
>> Yes.
>> There there's a lot that could happen
between now and then. How ready do you
think central banks would then stand to
act? Are we looking at off cycle if the
need arises?
>> Absolutely because I feel that as I said
if the oil price continue to stay around
100 110 range for the next two months
the Asian central bank will have a lot
more pressure to raise rates, correct?
Because the inflation Yes, of course, it
may be a short-term inflation with
long-term demand destruction, but they
still need to act in order to protect
the currencies also because Asian
especially Southeast Asia, correct? They
are the most affected because we are the
biggest importer of oil. But there's
India, Philippines, Thailand, even Korea
to some extent and Japan. So, to me
personally, they will be ready to stand
and act. And Philippine central bank has
come out and said they're ready to act
even
further raise rates. So, I do believe
that they will be ready to act if
required.
>> Rachna David here. Just to maybe a
follow on that. I mean, you you and
April touched on I think Oz, Singapore
tighten policy, the Philippines of
course somewhat surprised us.
Uh
what is to say other central banks don't
have a tightening surprise ahead? In
other words, are we is the market
underestimating the ability for these
central banks to tilt a lot more
hawkish, not to be on the fence, a lot
more hawkish than is is currently priced
in these markets?
>> Okay, I feel that I don't think so. Like
I know that lot of like initially
everybody is telling that Fed is going
to cut rates two times and then people
change to hike. Now people are saying no
hikes, no cuts, correct? It's very
neutral in terms of
Even ECB after the oil price and gas
price rises, I think market was
expecting about two hikes, but after now
they are saying that there won't be a
hike this month especially this week
Thursday's speaking. So, I think market
is also changing its perception, but for
me personally, the longer this crisis
and state of emergency closed, yes, they
may raise rates short-term, but
eventually demand destruction will let
them to cut faster in 2027. So, as of
now, I think they cannot be as more
hawkish given that this is a short-term
inflation impact compared to long-term
demand destruction and consumption slow
down. So, for me personally, I don't see
they will be some a lot more hawkish
this week.
>> Talk to us as well about central banks
such as Japan's, which is of course
meeting this week. There is a worry that
they are behind the curve. Is that
something that you're worried about as
well?
>> Yeah, I I think for the Japan, there is
a thing on currency also because the
currency is pretty weak. And actually,
if you look at the wage pressure is high
with oil price being high, I do I
actually I do expect Bank of Japan to
raise rates. So, I was expecting them to
raise rates this week, but now given the
war, they are actually uh postponing it
because I feel that they may not hike
rates this week. So, yes, I definitely
think that Japan is one country that
needs See, RBA was much ahead of skill
in the raise rate. So, I do believe that
Japan central bank should raise rate. If
you I expect ask me personally, they
should raise this week, but I don't
expect them to raise rates this week
given the war situation. And they are
more worried about long-term implication
and demand destruction. So, I think
every central bank is watching Is it
this going to be short-term or is this
going to be medium-term? Because
short-term inflation impact markets can
take it, but from a long-term
perspective, demand destruction may
That's why I'm talking about this push
and pull factor from for central bank.
It's not an easy decision for central
banks.
>> No, I don't envy them. Don't want to be
in that position. I mean, we're seeing
the BOJ expectations being pushed out to
June and later in the year, right? It's
not great to have you in the studio with
us. Thank you so much. Varsha Mehta is
co-head of regional fixed income at
Maybank Asset Management. And we're
counting down, of course, to the open of
markets in Greater China region. Here's
a look at how things are shaping up for
the moment. Plenty more ahead. This is
Bloomberg. [music]
>> [music]
>> Couple of stocks we're watching [music]
in the session after the unveiling of
Deep Seek's V4 preview version. We are
of course on watch for whether there's
further gains in some of these homegrown
chipmakers at a time where it sounds
like Deep Seek delayed the iteration so
that it could be more entrenched in the
local chip ecosystem. Of course,
watching some of these gig-related
companies as China formalizes rules
related to the workers and potentially
this could mean that they will have to
align things such as pay, compensation
with the labor intensity. So, that's
something we're watching across some of
these firms in the session as well,
David.
>> Yeah, yeah, so there's a so couple of
sectors, right? As you point out, some
of the the platform companies. I think
separately you had the PBOC coming out
talking about
competition in the financial sector. So,
certainly that's also one to watch. The
tech bounce, relatively speaking of
course, were flat in the early goings in
the Hang Seng index. Hang Seng tech is
up half of 1%. Now, just in terms of
earnings, very, very quickly, we have
about 100 companies on MSCI China set to
report today. About 60 on the [music]
CSI 300. Lots more on the way.
The open The opening bell is just ahead.
This is the China show.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back. You're watching the China
show counting down to the open markets
this Monday. And as you can see, we're
slightly [music] to the downside, lack
of momentum, which is certainly not the
case when you look at other markets in
the region. Korea, the Nikkei, Taiwan,
[music] what do those three have in
common? Really a big AI representation,
at least the current AI darling, let's
put it that way. Really leading to
[music] gains there, but that is also
just to say
when you look at the earning story this
week, [music] AS going to be featuring
quite heavily. A lot of the Mac 7's
going to be reporting. It's a massive
massive earnings week [music] here in
greater China, so we'll be tracking all
the developments there. And of course,
apart from that, we have some latest
headlines April [music] coming through
on the Iran story in the last hour or
so.
>> Yeah, I said [music] to be sending that
proposal across. So, maybe that informs
the shape of the war, but to your point
about AI representation, I guess it's
worth highlighting we are watching out
for Cambrion earnings this week, whether
the global tech rally is helping and
lifting some further investor appetite
as well at the time where perhaps moving
sideways on the mainland informs what
you're seeing in that sort of
dispersion. We are of course watching
some of these other developments
including how China's tax crackdown has
been jolting metals traders. And this is
of course against the backdrop of some
of these policy making considerations
including on the vocalization, if I can
put it that way, of Chinese authorities
worries over the finance industry and
the sort of involution that we are
seeing there. We are of course getting
some of that data out of China as well,
but let's the board take a look at how
Hong Kong is faring really that tech
dispersion where the chip makers have
been doing well. Don't forget that deep
seek development on Friday. We'll talk a
bit more about how that's being
received, of course, by investors, this
latest AI model. But aside from that,
the investors into deep seek, Alibaba
included, will remain in focus at the
time where the gig economy related
stocks are also on watch. So, a couple
of things we're watching in the session
for now, David.
>> Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. Of course,
the some of the other names as well here
on the back of some of the sanctions.
Hanwha Petrochem is one we'll be
tracking a bit later on as well. Okay,
just very quickly, we're just getting
some breaking numbers coming through.
Industrial profits, so this is for March
and by virtue you then have of course
the year-to-date figure. Let me get
started with year-to-date March, similar
rate of growth in any case, 15 and 1/2%
It's positive 15 and 1/2% year-to-date
as of March and for March it's 15.8% 15
and 1/2% rather year-to-date 15.8%
is the March figure and I think in terms
of just broad macro relevance
if you guys recall it, right? PPI, the
most recent numbers, positive for the
first time in nearly 4 years and these
two things tend to mirror
each other in as far as the coal sale
prices, upstream prices are concerned.
So, yes, there we go. 15 0.8%
on that specific Sorry. Okay, other
things as well. Why do we
April, let me send it back to you. I
believe I think we're also looking at
other things here as well on the Iran
story and we do have this we thought it
was going to be a quiet day, but we have
something to chew on here.
>> Yeah, I mean to your point about the
industrial profit rising, maybe that is
a read-through from how the
manufacturing base has in a way
benefited from the developments related
to the war and yet more developments,
right? We see how Iran reportedly giving
the US this new proposal for the
reopening of the strait perhaps end the
war. Let's get the latest with our
politics editor Laura Davison in
Singapore. So, Laura, this line crossing
the terminal, I think what, less than
half an hour, just over half an hour
ago. How should we be reading this
because
we have seen these head fakes before.
>> Yes, well, despite sort of you know
talks seeming to stall out over the
weekend, there clearly is some that
behind the scenes through negotiators in
Pakistan conversations happening. You
know, we saw Trump allude to this
proposal over the weekend. He told
reporters that you know, after he called
off a trip from from US Envoy Steve
Witkoff and Jared Kushner to go to
Pakistan for the weekend said that he
had immediately gotten a new proposal
from Iran which he characterized as
offering a quote a lot but not doing
enough. Um so this is you know kind of
a new point here where we had you know
we're sort of at a moment where Trump
has said he wants Iran to come to the
table with proposals. You know, we're
now hearing that this is you know kind
of a part of the the negotiations that
are happening but it's not clear at all
that there's going to be major forward
progress and you know some sort of sit
down meeting here anytime soon. You
know, I'll note there's there's a a lot
that the president is juggling right
now. Of course there was some chaos at
the White House Correspondents Dinner
over the weekend with a you know an
attacker
getting close to the president there
adding more security layers as US
officials travel overseas. Plus the King
of England is coming to the US this
week. Trump is scheduled to meet with Xi
in China here in a couple weeks. You
know, we do know that Trump is sitting
down in the
situation room at the White House with
some of his top top officials come
Monday. I'm Axios has reported. So
Iran continues to move forward but
there's this now is competing with other
priorities on his plate.
>> That's a good point Laura because we are
what three months in terms of the
closure on the strait. It's it's worth
pointing out, right? The fighting has
certainly died down quite substantially
too. What what is the risk that Iran
gets put in the back burner here in as
far as the other
topics are concerned there?
>> There is a pretty significant risk here
just because you know Trump has been
known to you know kind of once he's
focused on issues then move off them.
It's hard to get him back focused on
them. There are these other priorities
and there's no real key deadline here.
You know, Trump for a while there was
setting deadlines. He wanted to see a
deal within two days or two weeks. You
know, in this most recent sort of you
know, moment we we saw him you know,
extend a ceasefire but without a new
fresh deadline. And so this means that
there's not kind of a forcing moment
here. Of course, there could be other
external forcing moments you know,
particularly as we've seen you know, the
potential for global oil demand to
crash, prices to continue to skyrocket,
things like fertilizer and food becoming
other pressure points. So there's some
external forces here but Trump sort of
views this war as something that he is
done with and now it's on Iran's plate
to figure out a solution here. And so
he's less focused which just means that
this is you know, this is not going to
be his priority. He's going to be
focused on more domestic issues, some
political issues and it just makes it
all the harder to come to sort of sort
of resolution.
>> Laura, thank you so much. Our politics
editor Laura Davison in Singapore. Let's
check in on how Brent is faring because
of course we saw a bit of that invasion
of earlier gains following on from the
proposal that's reportedly being pushed
through by Iran. We are interestingly
still seeing the July contract sitting
above the $100
uh
barrel handle. Let's bring Stephen
Stepczynski who leads our Asia energy
coverage.
Stephen,
things are changing fast and furious but
it's interesting the reaction you're
seeing in markets, right?
>> I think the market is is they want a
deal. There you know, when when there's
something coming through
I think you're going to see prices
quickly deflate and any headline or
you know, inclination that something
could be done to unwind um
this war and turn the ceasefire into a
real peace deal, you're going to see the
market reactions. Now, that all being
said, um every day the opposite is true
for for Hormuz cuz every day Hormuz
remains shut. That is millions of
barrels of oil that's not making their
way into the market. And the difficult
thing that the market has to digest at
this moment is that there only so many
levers you can pull to kind of ease the
current under supply. So you've got a
lot of storage that has been tapped
either through strategic reserves
reserves that are already in certain
countries
and and oil that's been on the water. So
you had
India for example tap Russian oil that
had been sanctioned. They got waivers
from the US and they were kind of taking
that. You can look at that as
storage that's that's floating. That all
being said those supplies are quickly
depleting and so that goes to the
section where we have to go to demand
destruction where where consumption
actually has to drop. You've already see
that happen in in emerging Asia poorer
nations are are reducing consumption
because prices are too high. If this
continues for another few weeks
then you start to see potentially the
more developed country
countries Europe the United States and
and perhaps Northeast Asian countries
really start to restrict how much
they're consuming as well.
>> Yeah, I mean we're 3 months into
disclosure Stephen as you know and
you've been helping us track the stories
since since day one and I you know I
recall you know in the early days of
this
there were some announcements around
strategic reserves being released. You
know countries had looked into their
inventories and tried to figure out just
what that inventory look like
to the extent of 35 45 days and right
about now is where we are
in as far as where those inventories
should be close to depletion.
What is the latest on supply and where
are those strategic reserves that were
said to have been released weeks ago?
>> Yeah, I mean so the there were
let me let me flip that right. There the
market has lost or it's set to lose
about a billion barrels of oil
because of this and what's been released
is about half of that. So let's let's
put that into context and and those
releases are happening between you know
the G7 countries. Japan has also done
some some other releases. So, they've
done some things to cushion it. But, I
think it just shows that 1 billion
barrels just indicates how much has been
lost in the scale of this. And according
to analysts, we're going to a situation
where we could start to lose essentially
5 million barrels of oil from the market
on a daily basis. That's about 5% of
global supply. So, you need to do
something to balance that market because
it's not meeting the demand that's
there. And that's where that reduction
in consumption goes. I think what's
interesting is
you're starting to see the the strain in
the market more from the products now.
So, I'm talking jet fuel, right? You've
seen we've been reporting how all the
airlines are either reducing flights
in Europe and Asia. They're increasing
the prices of flights as well to deal
with the higher jet jet
fuel prices. Diesel, you're seeing
Indian companies prepare truck companies
prepare for potential fuel rationing and
also higher prices there as well. So,
we're seeing the the the products kind
of show the pain first. There is oil
available. There's still oil in supply.
There's still oil in strategic reserves
available.
Will they will there be more effort to
tap that?
Will companies and and governments look
at finding other reserves that are
available to use that? That that's
something that I think the market's
going to be closely watching. But, the
fact of the matter is that's only just
one lever. It's a bandage. And if the
Hormuz
closure continues, then that's where,
you know, consumption has to decrease.
You're only able to do this for so long.
>> I guess governments that are looking for
alternatives would include China's. And
we are seeing how perhaps the refineries
on the mainland are playing a bigger
role. We're since hearing as well how
Hongli Petrochem is opposing US
sanctions of one of its units. How is
that shaking out?
>> Right. So, they were they were
sanctioned in a surprise move on Friday
for taking Iranian oil according to the
US
that they they deny that they're
importing anything from Iran, but I
think that this shows a really
interesting point because previously the
US administration had given waivers to
allow for the Iranian oil on the water
to kind of get through. But over the
last few weeks we've seen them
tightening and tightening that supply
obviously to put pressure on Tehran, but
you know, we've got the blockade.
They've pushed I think they've said that
they've um
forced over three dozen ships Iranian
ships to to kind of turn back and and
change course
um back into the Persian Gulf. At the
same time you have this sanction putting
on a on a on a private Chinese refiner
them alleging that they that this is
because of the connections to Iranian
purchases. So, um the US certainly is
trying to tighten that. Of course, China
on on paper doesn't import any
officially any Iranian oil, but if you
according to analysts that look at ship
tracking data, there are a lot of ships
that are going on the dark fleet that
that are are transferring the fuel to to
China via Malaysia. There are some
ship to ship transfers that happen, but
I think if you take a step back again,
that's less fuel on the water. That's
that's one more lever that countries had
available to pull
whether it's through
sanction waivers like like in India or
through the dark fleet um
that they could they could tap on and
with that fuel not available again, that
causes that causes an issue for the
market tightens and and adds to that
bullish sentiment.
>> We are seeing the market reaction to the
US sanction. PetroChina Hengli is
falling by limit down 10% and to your
point I guess as these countries run out
of options, this is just going to become
more entrenched the longer this conflict
drags on. Steven always great to get
your insights. Thank you Bloomberg's
reporter Steven Stapczynski who leads
our Asia energy coverage. Coming up, the
latest on the Washington shooting set to
have targeted Trump administration
officials [music] as investigators
search for a motive. We speak to our
correspondent who was at [music] the
dinner next. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> I don't know. It sounded to me, I read a
manifesto. This This
radicalized he was a Christian
believer and then he became an
anti-Christian and he had a lot of
change. He's been going through a lot
based on what he wrote. His brother
complained about him and I think
reported him to the police.
>> [music]
>> President Trump speaking with CBS 60
Minutes about whether he was the target
of a gunman at the White House
Correspondents Dinner over the weekend
and the 31-year-old suspect is set to be
arraigned on Monday. Let's get more with
White House correspondent Jeff Mason who
was at the event. Jeff, first of all,
really glad that you're safe and sound.
You were in the room when this happened.
How did things unfold?
>> I was and thank you for that. The The
way things unfolded was the dinner
started in a normal way at first. People
attended receptions in the hotel prior
to going into the ballroom and to get
into the ballroom of the Washington
Hilton, you had to go through security
or a magnetometer machine.
The dinner, as I said, had started. We
were on a salad course. The There was
not the
opening speaker was the is the president
of the Correspondents Association. She
had made brief remarks and then we began
to eat and during that short period
after she had finished speaking, the the
sound of gunfire rang out. In my side of
the ballroom, I could hear the gunshots,
and others around me could hear the the
gunshots. And so, we got down right away
and took cover under the table and on
the floor. That sort of had a ripple
effect around the room as as others
either heard or saw how people were
reacting. And then, the Secret Service
jumped right in and started
going around the room and, of course,
evacuated the president and the vice
president and started then to evacuate
the rest of the very high-profile
members of President Trump's cabinet who
were scattered across the ballroom.
>> Jeff
David here. I mean, I was going to ask
you what the motive was on the part of
the shooter, but I think that's clear.
But, what do we know about
the shooter, and where are we in in
terms of the investigation?
>> Still learning details about the
shooter. Right now, we know that he is a
31-year-old man from California who took
a train from California to Washington,
apparently took a room in the Hilton
Hotel, and that's at least how it
appears as though he was able to get his
weapons into the hotel before bringing
them down to the the concourse level
where the ballroom was, which is the the
lowest level floor of of the space and
of the hotel.
The manifesto that you were mentioning
earlier is revealing a little bit more
about his motive and the the intentions
that he had and the fact that he appears
to have been focused,
as suspected, on President Trump and
members of his administration.
>> Jeff, it's really hard to overstate what
an alarming
state of affairs or situation this is
because it is potentially yet another
assassination attempt on the US
president following on from a slew of
political violence in the US. I mean,
what's your read into this?
>> Well, I think you're right to note that
the political violence issue and the and
the problem of political violence in the
United States over the last
few years has only been growing and
you're also the right to note that
President Trump has faced
now probably three assassination
attempts if that's what this was that we
know of. Other presidents have also
faced dangers but these have been very
public and very noticeable and and of
course the one in Pennsylvania, Butler,
Pennsylvania where he he narrowly
escaped being being killed.
He was shot on in the ear and there were
other people at that rally who were
killed was the one of the bigger
examples. This was just one more and it
took place in a in a crowded ballroom
full of journalists like myself and
public officials and others who worked
for his administration and of course
that raises the question about how
that's A how that's possible in an area
that should have been extremely secure
and B why this keeps happening in the
United States and some of those are
questions that are really impossible for
for me to answer
but are are certainly questions that are
being posed. As far as security is
concerned, I would note that the
president has been praising the Secret
Service and the fact that they responded
quickly and were able to prevent the man
from getting inside the ballroom as he
clearly intended to get and to prevent
the the violence that that could have
happened and more people or anyone
really from from being hurt.
>> Jeff,
glad you're safe, sir. Thank you so much
for the update there as well. Jeff
Mason, our Washington and White House
correspondent. Of course, as he was just
pointing out, he was of course at inside
[music] the room
uh when those events took place. Uh
we'll leave you with some live pictures
of [music] the White House. We have lots
more ahead here on the show. This
is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Some corporate [music] news this
morning. China Central Bank has repeated
the need to curb involution-style
competition in the financial sector,
framing it as governance and discipline
[music] concern. The PBOC Governor, Pan
Gongsheng, says authorities should
actively and prudently resolve debt risk
tied [music] to local government
financing vehicles while reaffirming a
crackdown on illegal financial activity.
The comments released Saturday followed
an internal [music] meeting.
China has formalized new labor rules for
gig [music] workers, including delivery
riders and live streamers. Major
platforms, such as Alibaba, Meituan, and
JD.com, must [music] align pay with
labor intensity, curb commissions, and
improve working conditions. [music]
The rules also require greater
transparency, algorithm reviews, and
stronger oversight, with [music] full
implementation targeted by 2027.
Nomura shares tumbled in Tokyo after
[music] fourth-quarter earnings missed
estimates, even as it posted a second
straight year of record profit fueled by
Japan's market rebound. [music]
Net income at the country's biggest
brokerage rose nearly 3% from a year
ago. Nomura has benefited [music] from
volatile global markets and a boom in
investing and deal-making at home.
>> With With to the situation in the Middle
East, if the supply chain changes
significantly, then we will have to
implement a structural change in
strategy, and this could affect M&A
activity in the long term.
But as of now, we're not envisioning
such a scenario. [music]
>> Right. Just look at markets right now as
the earnings we talked about Nomura
there. So Keyence is actually one of
them over in over in Japan as you can
see 16% sensor maker.
Limit up and as far as that specific
setting for the stock is concerned. Some
of the other AI plays are doing quite
well, I think is an understatement and
this AI story continues. It's almost
like this surfers are getting ready to
ride this massive wave that's about to
come through this week in the form of
other AI earnings. A massive chunk of
course of US tech reports this week.
Let's have a look at mainland chip
stocks as well. Separately of course
deep seek and the CCTV report talking
about how the delay underscores the
shift toward Chinese chips. We are
getting the likes of SMIC up
substantially. Multichai, cheers to the
weekend. Out with earnings on Friday
doing well as well going into the first
25 minutes of the cash market session.
Lots more ahead here on the China show.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back to the China show. Here's a
look at the CSI 300 half hour into the
session. [music]
We're seeing it
mouthly positive about a third of a
percent higher. It's worth noting that
you're seeing about as many stocks on
the [music] index up as down. And I
think here is really a representation of
if you have tech, great for you. Great
news, right? Because that is really the
sector that's been leading the region
higher, especially when it comes to some
of these other benchmarks across Asia,
especially the Taiex being lifted by
[music] TSMC. If we can take a look at
how it's faring about an hour in as we
saw how Taiwan basically easing the
single stock investment cap. And then
this further tailwind from the Iran war
developments. So you are seeing it
really positive on Asia's stocks overall
today, especially the tech heavy indices
on a day where perhaps the concern is
still lingering on the real world
aspects given how oil is still at
elevated levels. I think we're still
around the 105 106 handle on Brent. You
are also seeing these US futures for
stocks pointing to perhaps another
positive session in a big week for mega
cap earnings, David.
>> Yeah, and a lot of that will really tell
us how much this AI rally, I think in
some ways justified. And I think we'll
get a reset uh uh on some of these
multiples this week. And I think a very
good example of that, we'll get to
Samsung. It's really Samsung, right? So
when you came out with uh that those
earnings and that outlook, I mean the
stock suddenly went from seven times to
five times earnings. Yeah, I'm talking
earnings here, not not not price to
book. Uh that's also just to highlight
uh something that we've seen. We're
almost about to wrap up April and really
this return of sort of the growth theme,
growth factor, right? So growth is
actually set to outperform value here in
the Asia Pacific by the most uh this
month uh in about 25 years or so. We're
about six points in terms of that
outperformance this year. So I think if
you look at the markets that are set
this individual benchmarks that are
actually set to
uh do very, very well, I think over the
last month. It just so happens that
markets bought in at the end of March
about a 1-month look. It's It's the
KOSPI, it's Taiwan, it's the Nikkei 225
globally that are This is as of This is
as of Friday, of course. It's
unsurprising that when you look at it on
a sort of index level April, you know,
one would think that all is well in the
world. There is no war, there is no
lasting long tail of economic impact,
but a lot of it, if not all of it, is
really down to very few, very large
stocks lifting very few benchmarks
across the world. April.
>> Yeah, I think we have you to thank for
this chart that's coming up on your
screen shortly on the global inequality
in equities, right? Because we are
seeing here I mean, the sense you get of
how these 2,500 or so stocks on the
global benchmark of the MSCI, we're
actually seeing less than 140 of them
trading at the 52-week high. So, this is
compared to roughly 400 that was before
the war. So, worth keeping in mind even
though we're seeing AI-related stocks
going gangbusters, you know, you can
really see how
not all stocks are created equal. Take a
look as well at what we have on tap. We
talked about some of the mega cap
earnings in Asia. BYD will be on watch
as we perhaps ponder a bit more about
how its market share may have shifted
given these elevated oil prices. Aside
from that, Capricorn amid the global
tech rally, the exuberance around
chip-related stocks, and of course, some
of the banks as well in China that are
set to report. They've been seen as sort
of safe-haven stocks in a way amid the
turmoil. David.
>> Okay. Yeah, why don't we start on
earnings?
Uh joining us here in set is our M live
macro strategist David Savage. David,
good morning. Nice to see you and hope
you had a restful weekend. It looks like
it's going to be a very extremely busy
docket on the earnings front this week.
>> Yeah, good morning and and I I think
that's exactly right. I mean,
coming into this week, it it there was
lots to be worried about. It felt like
Groundhog Day again. We had
>> Yes.
>> you know, concerns around the peace
talks over the weekend, crude moving
higher this morning, and then Asian
equities open higher and then continue
to run higher. And I I think that shows
that investors are facing two-ways risk,
right? That they got to be aware of what
can go wrong, but increasingly what
could go right. And today a lot's going
right for Asian equities, right? We got
some pretty positive earnings from some
of the AI names in in Japan. We have
Advantest later today and of course a
big week in earnings for for the US as
well. So, yeah, it should be a big week.
>> Big week for earnings, big week for
central banks as well. So, on that note
on tech doing well and perhaps
benefiting from the secular growth
narrative, how immune are they to
hawkish central bank narrative?
>> Yeah, I I I think that's a great point.
I mean,
as as you and and David noted that a lot
of the the performance we've seen from
from equity benchmarks is is really been
driven by tech
and the rest of the benchmark is
certainly not immune to the consequences
of the conflict and therefore the pass
through in terms of what central banks
start to signal this week. So, obviously
that there's not a lot of expectations
that we'd see changes in uh actually
policy rates, um but certainly, you
know, looking at the BOJ or the ECB,
whether we get some more uh hawkish
commentary and that starts to lift
front-end yields a little bit more uh is
certainly a concern. And I I I think you
can see that in the market, too, right?
You know, crude prices have have moved
higher again today. That hasn't held
back equities, but bond yields have
continued to to stay elevated along with
energy prices. And so, I think markets
are are perhaps settling into a range
where we have higher bond yields for
longer and and and higher energy prices
and and crude prices for longer.
>> And is it maybe just a question on
you know, we had this headline this
report about a about an hour back from
Axios of course that the Iranians have
this new proposal.
And what we saw with markets was clearly
a positive reaction and then we've
started to pare back a little bit on
price.
Do you get a sense that
markets are just done with this? Like
let's they they know what will move the
needle is a final deal.
>> Yeah.
>> And not so much a proposal helps but not
so much just a proposal.
>> Yeah, I I I think it's it's it's
potential I think it's also just the
range, right? It as long as the conflict
keeps energy prices in a range even if
it's elevated, certainly tech stocks
have shown that that's not going to
disrupt this global AI capex story. If
you look underneath the hood and look at
some of you know, consumer names, those
sectors, certainly banks and the
pass-through in terms of what that does
in terms of policy rates and and so
there there there could be more of an
impact and that's where you see more of
the swings when we see headlines lines
come across that's either positive or
negative on on the conflict. And I think
we also see that in in fund flows too,
right? Any any flows
any benchmarks that are markets that
have exposure to tech, we're seeing
foreign buying in in terms of those
stocks. So South Korea, Taiwan, Japan,
but elsewhere in Asia that don't have
that that lift, you know, they're really
seeing a lot of selling.
>> Okay. David, fantastic for getting us
warmed up for the week. David Savage
there guys, our Mlive macro strategist
here
on set with us getting us really set Uh
just a massive earnings week is really
an understatement and also on the
central bank front as well. Right, just
a glance at markets as we
what? Glide into a a fresh trading week.
We're weaker on the Hang Seng, we're
better on the CSI 300. We're even better
[music] when you look at some of the as
David was just pointing out there some
of these benchmarks with really heavy AI
representation. Lots more ahead. This is
[music] the China show.
>> [music]
>> Welcome back [music] and good morning if
you're joining us
across the region. Happy Monday morning.
Right, so let's talk let's talk global
trade, shall we? So, the South Korean
trade minister You Han-koo
has says the country is actually
diversifying its energy sourcing. This
is really against the backdrop of what's
taking place in the Middle East in terms
of cutting reliance in the countries
dependence on the Middle East for energy
including things like cooperation with
the likes of India. Speaking to us
earlier on, he also says exports hit a
record in March led by the strong global
demand for semiconductors.
>> I think overall the Korea's export has
been really robust. For example, for the
last 10 consecutive consecutive months
the Korean export has been growing and
the last month which is the March,
our export hit the record level of 68
billion dollar for the first time. I
think it's a really driven by kind of
strong demand for semiconductors around
the world. So, despite some concern
related to all the tariffs and
uncertainty in the Middle East, I think
the Korean export has been really
showing you know robust performance so
far.
>> Is there a risk that a lot of the
materials and naphtha, rubber, resin, a
lot of the things that could potentially
go into the supply chains especially
around tech exports will be hit given
the ongoing conflict in the Middle East?
>> Yes, in fact
this the supplies of the naphtha and you
know this are being squeezed. So, we are
taking you know domestic measures to
kind of restrain uh the export of this
naphtha. At the same time, uh we really
make all out efforts to secure more
naphtha from um you know, uh other
region uh than the Middle East. Uh
previously, 80% of our naphtha came from
uh the Middle East. So, uh we are
exposed to uh this kind of potential
risk in the region. And now, I think uh
diversifying uh is a really a way to go.
So, now we are making all these efforts
to find new uh alternative uh sources uh
and the partners for this.
>> And have you gotten any commitments from
Asian partners? I know that you've been
to India, you've been here in Japan,
you're in Singapore right now.
>> Uh yes, um the last week uh the Korean
president made a state visit to India.
And um actually, the Korea and India
signed MOU on this uh cooperation uh in
energy uh and uh you know, this uh the
the sector. Uh and uh yeah, I mean, I
think all these other countries are also
struggling uh with this uh shortage of
naphtha and other uh the petrol uh you
know, chemical products, but we are
making efforts.
>> Um I know that you've had
[clears throat] perhaps some concerns
coming from Indian authorities as well
about the CEPA trade deal and how
balanced it is. Will that have any
implications to how much cooperation you
can get from them?
>> Yeah, I think uh we had a really uh this
great uh agreement uh last week in India
to really accelerate uh this upgrade
negotiation for Korea-India CEPA. I
think we have uh really this great
potential. I mean, our economies are
complementary. A lot of Korean
businesses in automobile, uh
electronics, and uh shipbuilding, they
uh they have invested in India and they
are considering investing in India. So,
I think uh upgrading this almost uh you
know, 17-year-old the framework of trade
and investment will actually really
boost to further trade and investment
between our two countries.
>> And Minister, a key issue is also what's
happening between the relationship
between China and the United States.
What do you hope to see or expect to see
from the President Trump President Xi
Jinping meeting in May that could help
potentially the global trade environment
and what's happening between South Korea
and these two partners as well.
>> Yeah, right now the China is our number
one trading partner and the US is number
two. But it's a really kind of neck and
neck. So, I think it is in our interest
to see that stabilization
of this US China trade relations
[snorts]
being in, you know, the realized. So, we
hope to see that some more
predictability and more stability
could be
the secure through this kind of
the the high-level talks.
>> There you go. That was Shery, of course,
our colleague just speaking about, I
would say, just over just about 2 hours
back with the South Korean trade
minister there who is, as you just saw,
in in Singapore, of course, visiting
trading partners there. Okay, let's
let's let's talk about this, right? The
the ever-shifting contours of of global
trade, particularly given what's taking
place in in the Middle East. Joining us
here on set is Wendy Cutler, vice
president at the Asia Society Policy
Institute. She's also a former acting
deputy US trade representative, and she,
of course, in her previous life, she
also helped form things like the US
Korea Free Trade Agreement. Wendy, it's
very very nice to see you. I believe you
know the South Korean trade minister.
>> Yeah, we go way back.
>> Okay. So, what do you think of the
conversation? Some of the topics that
they hit. Does that seem representative
of what's taking place?
>> Absolutely. I think all of our trading
partners in Asia are hoping that when
President Trump meets President Xi
Jinping that they will confirm the
stabilization in relations. At the same
time, um, the minister touched upon the
economic fallout of the Iran war. And
even though while Korea seems for the
time being to be doing okay, the longer
the war goes on, the more Asian
economies are going to be hit. And not
just in oil and gas, as the minister
said, it's going to affect
semiconductors and tourism and food. So,
there's a hope, I'm sure, in in Asia
that we can find some kind of
accommodation um, in the Middle East as
well. So, a lot on our president's
agenda.
>> Yeah, [laughter] in in two weeks. And by
all indications, it does seem that that
it's it's still going to take place. And
let's hope that continues to be the case
after it got derailed the first time.
How would you describe the relationship
between China and and the US currently?
Following, I think, November in Seoul,
uh, in in Korea, and then, of course,
through the the war and where we are
right now.
>> I think both sides have made it clear
that they're interested in stabilizing
this relationship and de-escalating. But
that's something that's easier said than
done.
>> was about to say stable enough.
>> Right. Right. And so, I think at this
upcoming meeting, they're going to try
and extend the truce that they reached
last October, which is supposed to
expire in October. But I think there'll
be very modest deliverables to kind of
build on the relationship.
>> Mhm. Uh, so, in terms of deliverables,
what what can we expect from both sides?
>> So, again, I think they'll try and
extend the trade truce. I wouldn't be
surprised if China announces some big
purchases of US agriculture and
airplanes and the like. And then there's
a lot of talk about this new board of
trade where the two sides can work
together to facilitate trade in
non-strategic areas. So, put aside
semiconductors and critical minerals,
are there sectors where we can trade and
maybe even lower the tariffs in those
sectors.
>> Mhm. Do any sectors come to mind?
>> Well, I think for the US, we would like
to see increased exports of, um,
aircraft and aircraft parts, medical,
um, devices and the like. And with
respect to what we would want from from
China, I think it would kind of be the
low-end stuff, the non-strategic stuff.
>> All right. And on the Chinese side, what
do you suspect they might be asking for?
>> Well, I think that Taiwan will be front
and center of all their demands, and
that could even, um, affect the trade,
you know, what happens on trade. Um, I
also think they're going to want to see
the United States further relax export
restrictions we have on high-tech
exports to China, which I think is
something that the US is going to be
cautious about doing.
>> Is there something there that you think
they can hope for?
>> Well, again, maybe just kind of a
standstill. That would be a major
accomplishment. And let's be honest,
during this standstill, each side is
doing what they need to do to reduce
dependency on the others in strategic
areas. So, this is doesn't stabilization
doesn't mean a love fest. It kind of
means de-escalate, and each side do what
you need to do in order to to reduce
your dependence on the other for these,
um, you know, for sensitive, um,
high-end products.
>> Well, figuring out how to coexist, I
think, is is a way to to to put that.
Has the Iran war injected any further
complexity into this?
>> Well, absolutely. Look, it's taken the
oxygen out of the room with respect to
all the conversations our president is
having with any other foreign leader,
and I suspect that will, you know, that
will also consume a lot of attention and
discussion, um, in the meetings with Xi
Jinping, um, but at the same and and it
will divert some attention to the other
issues. But, I also think that there's
so many other items on the agenda of
both sides that they're not going to let
the Iran war crowd out those other
issues.
>> The other
aspect here is, and I think we were talk
we talked touched on this earlier on as
well, is that, you know, you have US
allies in the region that are dealing
with the the economic fallout
of the war, and perhaps as a function of
the unpredictability of the White House,
it they have become somewhat unreliable
in it pertains to some of the allies
here. Is there some PR fix that the US
needs to embark on some economic
support that you think is
is is to be expected from the US to at
least help its allies here
mend
the damage.
>> I think that would be a a great idea and
I was just in Japan last week where the
Japanese government announced a huge
loan program to the Southeast Asian
countries to help them get through this
crisis and I think that would be in
order for the US to do the same.
Kind of unsure that that's where the
White House is leading.
leaning, but I will say what Minister
Yos said is is is accurate that all of
our trading partners, even close ones
like Korea, are looking to diversify
their trading partners and reduce their
reliance on the United States because
regrettably they think we are unreliable
and there's so much unpredictability in
this relationship so they feel like they
need to turn elsewhere.
>> And is that something that we should
expect more of in terms of whether or
not we agree with the notion or the
premise that the US has driven US allies
closer to the orbit of China, that's a
simply the economic reality of how how
things are going to be going forward.
>> Absolutely and I hear that from all of
our Asian trading partners. Not only are
they intensifying and accelerating their
efforts to increase economic ties with
other countries, but this is kind of
their medium to long-term approach. It's
not just what they're doing for the
minute and that should concern
Washington.
>> Wendy, it was a great to see you. Next
time you're in town, let us know as as
well. Wendy Cutler there folks, a vice
president at the Asia Society Policy
Institute. Right, we have lots more on
the way here as far as markets go. We're
in the thick [music] of earning season,
lots in Japan, so we'll talk about that
in a moment. Currency markets,
risk on?
Question mark, but yeah, maybe Okay,
definitive. Let's put it as a statement
[music] right now. Risk on. Looking at
Aussie as we speak. Lots more ahead.
This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Foreign automakers [music] once
dominated China, but currently domestic
names are stealing the spotlight. Steven
Engle reports from the Beijing Auto
Show.
>> Here's a question for you from the
Beijing Auto Show 2026. Is globalization
over? Well, that's debatable, of course,
here in the auto industry when you have
a whole collection of legacy foreign
carmakers competing, of course, with the
new entrants in the EV space in a highly
competitive price war environment in
China. The difference I would say is
it's still a global industry, but the
country that's in the driver's seat,
perhaps, has changed. For decades,
foreign carmakers flocked to China with
a price of entry essentially being
technology transfers to their joint
venture partners. Fast forward to 2026,
a reverse of that dynamic is on full
display. It's the foreigners looking to
partner for Chinese technology to stem
the tide of their massive market share
losses here. Hyundai Motor, for one, is
launching its arrow-shaped Ioniq 5 with
local partner BAIC
with autonomous driving tech from
Chinese software firm Momenta and
batteries from China's CATL. Volkswagen,
too, has a relatively new partnership
here and a 5% stake in China's Xpeng.
Co-developing, co-engineering the
ID.UNIK 008 and 009. It has all the
bells and whistles that the Chinese EV
buyer wants. Like here in the cockpit
for one, it's all the rage in 2026 and
that is touch screens from the driver
side all the way through to the
passenger side. Keep in mind, Volkswagen
used to be the number one top seller in
China of passenger vehicles. They're up
against it though, but they decided
China is too big to ignore. They're
going to embrace partnerships with the
likes of Xpeng to recapture some of that
lost glory. The legacy American car
makers like Ford, also GM, I see Buick
right over there, Cadillac's in another
hall. They're also here at the Beijing
Auto Show facing the same headwinds, if
you will, as the other foreign car
makers in this hyper-competitive Chinese
market which is dominated by EVs and
also a price war. And that begs the
question, how are the Americans like
Ford and their Bronco, how are they
going to capture the attention of the
Chinese consumer? And how do they strike
up new partnerships with the new
generation of Chinese car makers amid
the tariff regime in the United States
where they slap 100% [snorts] tariffs on
Chinese EVs shipped to America.
Feature-rich and quick feature refresh
are the hallmarks of Chinese EVs. Like
Seres, it's risen to the top of the
ultra-luxury segment in China by
offering a lot of funky options for its
big SUVs like this, the latest M9. It
offers refrigerators on board, karaoke
systems, and this one, the headlights
even turn into mobile projectors in
color. They've also licensed technology
for an on board toilet for some
vehicles, if that's your thing.
For the multitude of domestic Chinese EV
makers, it's all about grabbing
attention while they're still alive.
Because there's going to be a reckoning.
With this price war is just the
beginning of a weeding out period. So,
companies like this with the GAC,
>> [music]
>> which is Guangzhou Auto. I'm not saying
that they're not going to survive, but
they're going to be one of the car
makers that is going [music] to be
fighting for survival. Many people I've
talked to here at the Beijing Auto Show
say by 2030, so in just 4 years time,
there could be far fewer. We're talking
from dozens to a handful of domestic EV
makers [music]
by the end of this decade. Steven Engle,
Bloomberg News,
the Beijing Auto Show.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Right. Good morning. Welcome back.
You're watching the China show. So, it's
11:29 in the morning in
Tokyo. So, [music] that means we're
headed to the lunch break there and some
solid Yeah, on solid footing. 60,000 on
the Nikkei.
>> [music]
>> Um there's a massive earnings
um
uh overlay uh in the equity markets in
Japan. So, I mean, we talked about
Nomura earlier on. Lots of as far as the
AI plays are concerned. I think Fanuc's
also doing quite nicely there uh in
Japan. Oh, by the way, it's BOJ week.
Yay. They're not going to do anything.
Um but let's see. They have scope to
surprise if you look at past
performance. Uh massive central bank
week. Um I think one for every day.
Massive in G7 in terms of earnings. Flip
the page, please, and let's have a look
at how we're doing across the
Asia-Pacific. 1.4%. I think it's the
busiest week for earnings here in the
Asia-Pacific uh in as far as we can
remember here. So, you have the likes of
Samsung breaking down their earning
story for us. There's a massive one
coming through as well out of mainland
China. I think BYD uh some of the big
names coming through as well. If I'm
just racking my brain for statistics
here. I think about 90
or so companies on MSCI China are
reporting this week. 60 plus you have an
overlap between that and CSI 300. CSI
300 about 60 plus are reporting uh this
week. Just to say, of course, it's going
to be very, very busy
um
the next few days or so. Okay, let's
talk about Chinese pharma, shall we? So,
in our
China Decoded segment for this week, in
fact, it's really about how China has
really closed the gap
if not overtaken in some cases the US in
terms of biotech and pharma research. In
some cases, as we were just pointing
out, it pulled ahead. The proportion of
studies being conducted by Chinese
scientists has surged, accelerating the
development here of new treatments and
reshaping the global drug pipeline.
Joining us here on set is Juliana Liu,
our Bloomberg Opinion columnist, who
thinks that China's dominance in the
sector is just beginning to join the
strike right now. And you wrote a column
about this about a week back, if I'm not
mistaken. What Take us through the
thesis of the column.
>> Yeah, so essentially, you know, what we
often look at um is out-licensing,
right? The actual money that uh gets
passed between um the Chinese um
developer and the overseas kind of
pharma company. And these numbers have
been soaring. I think last year um they
were at a hundred billion out-licensing.
But what was really interesting to me
about a study that was published
recently in uh JAMA, in that prestigious
medical journal, is that these
researchers at Georgetown, what they
looked at was instead early-stage
research and develop- development
programs
>> Okay.
>> across across the world, uh not just the
US and China, but really the rest of the
world. But I think what's become really
clear when you look at the chart um is
that it's really now about the US and
China.
Um other countries, obviously, are still
involved in R&D, uh
but the number of studies it's just not
matching. Um China has really zoomed
ahead um when really nobody was
watching. You know, I I don't think that
the world really has a sense of uh how
much China is contributing to R&D in
pharmaceuticals. You know, we talk a lot
about other subjects, chips, EVs, and I.
People aren't paying attention to
something that's actually very
fundamental fundamental to their health
and and the quality of life.
>> And it's something that could be a
political as well, right? In terms of
regulatory risk because this is
something that obviously helps.
It's a matter of what passport you hold,
right? You're still a human being. How
how do So how does the data inform you
about in terms of the pipeline of drug
launches, for example? New drug
launches.
>> Yeah, so what this study shows
what it suggests is that in terms of
early research and develop development,
this is increasingly happening in China
and they didn't supply full year 2025
data because the study was just
published, you know, in March, but it
looks like China has overtaken the US in
terms of the early R&D programs that
they're looking at and you can see where
the momentum is going, right? The
momentum is really going one way. So
China is likely to be the originator and
increasingly the dominant originator of
R&D pharma projects.
>> Fantastic. Juliana, thank you so much.
Juliana Liu there guys, our Bloomberg
Opinion columnist. You can check out her
columns, of course, on the terminal for
our Bloomberg clients.
Why don't we further that conversation
on pharma? How we got here, what's
ahead, what the major challenges and
risks are, what does the fundraising
environment look like on the private
side going through all the way into the
IPO space. Joining us here in set
Rebecca Leung, senior analyst for the
pharma industry at Bernstein. Very nice
to see you and good morning.
>> Good morning, David. Thank you for
having me.
>> So very good point that Juliana just
made that I'm sure you heard it that a
lot of people were not paying attention
and then suddenly they're now looking at
China leading across many of these
fronts.
How do you think we got here quite
quickly and do you think there is enough
momentum to sustain us over the next few
years?
>> Right. So the pharma industry in China
is quite new, actually. So it spent the
last decade or so trying to catch up to
global standards.
>> Uh now we see that instead of catching
up, um the industry is maturing and
uh the product whole quality is
improving in many areas. It's actually
leading the curve. So, China has now
close to 5,000 clinical programs and
these account for about 40% of the early
drug pipeline globally. So, as Juliana
was pointing out, uh China and the US
are now the two major players. Um
both contributing about half to the
global innovation drug innovation and
R&D efforts.
>> And just in terms of domestically, what
are the fastest growing segments,
whether that's oncology, cardiovascular,
autoimmune? Just in terms of your
coverage, what what seems to be the
biggest driver of growth right now?
>> Oh, definitely. So, the top therapeutic
areas are oncology as well as metabolic
diseases. So, we do see China has this
advantage of engineering
new drugs on top of what's already there
globally. So, that means that in some
new modalities like bispecific
antibodies and antibody drug conjugates,
these are the up and rising modalities
in oncology.
China, because of its engineering
advantage and its general advantage of
just doing many more trials faster and
cheaper than global average. You know,
for example, we see that the early
development in China from preclinical
research to the completion of phase one
typically takes 3 to 4 years and this is
about 50% faster than the global
average. So, now we have a pipeline
boom, IP boom in China.
Therapeutic you know, oncology drugs are
the top areas.
>> Can I ask a stupid question? Why is
China so fast in being able to get
through most of these processes.
>> So, macro enablers are definitely
important. So, we we always have
favorable policies. For example, the
recent 15th 5-year plan identifies
health care as a pillar industry.
>> Okay.
>> Besides that, you also have the the vast
and aging population.
In China, clinical trials,
the big speed up is in in road patient
enrollment. And because you have such
concentration of hospital sites and
patients in top-tier cities, you are
able to recruit patients a lot faster.
So, I I don't think it's one factor.
It's, you know, multiple years of
incubation
and just, you know, gradual maturing of
the industry.
>> Okay. Let's talk about your top picks.
>> Right.
>> So, how do how do investors get involved
here?
>> So, you know, interestingly, last year
it was all about sector beta. So, um
the you know, yeah, the the the
out-licensing trend really drove up lots
of stocks. I think this year we're back
to a more reasonable valuation level.
>> Okay.
>> And now stock picking company offers
more important. So, we like companies
that have a fast-growing pipeline,
can sustain the out-licensing deals. But
more importantly, after the deals, we
want them to be able to deliver in the
data front. So, what we mean is that the
assets, once they're with the global
partners, they're subject to further
global testing and also FDA reviews. So,
eventually it's the cold hard clinical
data that would determine whether the
assets have a chance to succeed
commercially
at the global level. So, our top pick,
like Innovent Biologics, a maturing
biopharma that's transitioning to a
global level biopharma. And also
Hengrui, which is a very successful
example of a traditional more generic
heavy company
that's able to phase out their legacy
products and replenish with lots of
innovative drugs. So, those are examples
that are
on the one hand delivering good growth
domestically in their business and also
having a healthy pipeline.
And this year we see lots of clinical
catalysts for the companies. You know,
where they will be presenting at major
global conferences with their important
data. I think those could be very stock
moving.
>> I mean, in terms of what the what the
challenges are. I know that sounds like
a very generic question and no pun
intended on
the pharma angle there. But if if
everything seems to be in place very
slowly over the course of many many
years, what
what could disrupt simply just the beta
trade here? Let's talk about that before
we talk about idiosyncratic risks to
companies.
>> Yeah, I mean, we we see health care
actually as a capital market it's um
constantly getting out and in and out of
favor. So, you have about a 3 5-year
cycle. Last time
the valuation peaked around COVID times
around 2021. And then
because that back then lots of companies
got listed on Hong Kong chapter 18A. Uh
and so lots of fresh new capital
went into the sector. But soon people
realized that the company global
competitiveness was not there yet. So,
even the so-called innovative drugs back
then were more like copycat innovation
and not truly having able to make a dent
in the global market. So, because of
oversupply of very similar drugs, I
think you know, you saw the valuation
tank and we actually had a pretty
prolonged bear market for the past 2 or
3 years. But recently what changed is
that uh, the innovation level is
elevated already, uh, so that we now do
have assets that are competitive
globally. So, the global story is a lot
more solid today compared to 4 5 years
ago. That's why, you know, you see the
return of investors, especially
generalists, last year. Uh, they're
waking up to this trend of
out-licensing, but it's actually not a
one-off, um, phenomenon, right? So, it's
actually years of incubation,
um, and structural growth, um, for the
companies who are able to survive the,
uh, funding shortage in the last few
years.
>> Does the out-licensing trend, does that
continue, you think? And just in terms
of fundraising, since you brought it up,
what what what what what type of
fundraising do you think we'll expect
both in the private and public markets
this year?
>> Sure. So, first of all, the
out-licensing does continue, something
very structural. So, last year we had
about 130 billion dollars total
out-licensing value, more than doubling
from 2024. So, it was already a
phenomenal year, but this year, in our
year-to-date, we have close to 60
billion already.
So, it's something something that's, you
know, the
momentum is still quite strong. But, I
do think the capital market is getting
more, um, difficult because last year
react- investors do react to those
deals. Um, you you see a mega deal
announced, and it move immediately sends
the whole sector up. I think this year
is it's going to be more on delivering
on the deals that already have been
made, um, having good data presented for
those individual stocks, right? So,
investors are now, um, looking for the
next phase of globalization, which is,
you know, you're able to get the data
through and get through the regulatory
bodies, you know, the FDA, EMA, etc.
>> Yeah, I think that's the point you made
about two answers back, and that's
something to watch this year, right? My
my my final question is, this what what
is happening reminds me of
the China's car industry 2 years back
where
as an example, right? So
the cutting edge technology and
batteries, electrification, and all
these things were clearly if you wanted
to pick the dominant players, you'd have
to pick a Chinese player. Well, what
happened was now we're suddenly stopped
they're all competing with each other
now. What is the risk that these Chinese
drug makers who are at the forefront of
the development curve start competing
with one another and that becomes just
market negative for for the trade.
>> Yeah, I I think that's something
inevitable. Um so as they mature, uh
they are now vying for the global market
and we know that typically for for
pharmaceuticals, for each class of drug,
you can you have the space for three to
four players.
>> Okay.
>> Where the top player typically gets more
than half the market. All right, so
eventually it is, you know, it's a very
um
it is competition. It is
you know, defining the word. But what we
see is that uh these Chinese players,
they are just beginning to get to that
to that position where they they're able
to go into the top three or four. So I
think for the top companies, there's
still a lot of growth and alpha in the
future. Um because this is something
that at the moment is still not it is
not in their P&L. All right, so so
something complete um um you know,
incremental growth to them.
>> Okay. It's it's crazy to me that not a
lot of people are paying attention to
this. Uh
maybe after this, we'll see. Uh Rebecca,
thank you so much. Rebecca Leung there,
guys. Uh senior analyst for the industry
uh at Bernstein there. By the way, in if
you like that, uh
you liked our conversation with Julian
or some of the other stuff that you
might have missed here on shows today,
so you can check it out on our new video
hub.
>> [music]
>> So for subscribers, you can check out
live streaming news, interviews as we
just touched on there, and all of our
Bloomberg TV [music] shows. Check it
out. All you need is an internet
connection. Bloomberg.com/videos.
This [music] is the China Show.
Welcome back when the chips
are up. There we go. On your screens.
[music]
A social media account affiliated with
talking DeepMind by the way by the way
affiliated with Chinese state media.
Talking about DeepMind and the delayed
release of its V4 model pointing to the
report says to a shift toward deeper
integration with the chip system
ecosystem in China. Now the startup in
case you missed it by the way on Friday
released this preview preview versions
of its long-awaited new model but
Bloomberg Intelligence thinks it
actually fails to narrow the gap with
leading US products thanks to access to
advanced Nvidia chips. Robert Lee,
author of that report, joins us now to
talk us through. I
We you know, I think we've been spoiled
because of the initial DeepMind moment.
This is 1.5 or 2. What do you make of
this?
>> Okay. Well, compare and contrast to last
January when DeepMind made the big
splash. It was off most people's radar.
That isn't the case this time. It's so
the new model has been well previewed,
well trailed. Its performance and the
characteristics largely met met with
expectations. So hence the lack of major
surprise. But where it does lead is in
terms of its again forging ahead and
pushing the barriers in terms of cost
down and software optimization, which is
the key strategy that China as a whole
is pursuing at the moment. And I think
the most interesting thing about it as
was detailed in their accompanying white
paper is that the model was trained and
developed almost exclusively on Huawei
chips. So again highlighting China's
ongoing push towards semiconductor
self-sufficiency and reducing any
reliance on Nvidia, etc. So therefore,
the chance of China
taking whole-scale orders from Nvidia
going forward, as we've been writing
over the recent months, is probably
pretty limited.
>> Well, I think you highlighted a good
point in terms of how we need to be
looking at how this one pushes the
boundaries. Is it more on to your point
cost, or is it something around the tech
side that catches your eye?
>> Well, as as you said, I mean, very
kindly in the opening quote from our
report, China lacks access to leading
edge Nvidia chips. Therefore, its
ability to compete in terms of frontier
model development is, you know, they're
on the back foot. And they're not trying
to do that. So they're
tying in with the government's national
strategy to proliferate AI across the
entire economy, across every segment and
every province, which is defined by
what's referred to, um,
well, as as as one of the government's
major,
um, white papers. So the focus for
Chinese companies, including DeepSeek,
is really on efficiency. It's by using
clever software optimization techniques
to squeeze more performance out of what
they have at the moment. And I think if
you look at the characteristics and the
technical competency of that model, that
clearly illustrates that China is
developing, I think, a real lead in
software-optimized models and in cost
down. And if you look at the pricing, in
terms of token pricing that they're
charging external clients, they're still
compared to the leading, um, Anthropic
models, they're on approximate 80 to 90%
discount. Now, I would suggest that the
pricing is a loss-leading price. There's
obviously some degree of subsidization
going in there. Um, but
they they're also benefiting from this
cost optimization, which allows them to
push ahead in terms of, uh, pricing. So,
uh, yeah. Um, China is clearly emerging
as a global leader in uh, software
optimized models. It lacks access to
Nvidia and therefore its ability to
compete on frontier model developments
is curtailed. So the strategy given the
constraints they work within is I think
the right one.
>> Yeah, I just a mental exercise. If they
had access to those chips, do you think
we'd be having a different conversation?
>> China's got a huge strengths in software
development. It's home to some of the
world's largest software companies,
Alibaba and Tencent.
Um, the technical barriers to entry in
software are much lower compared and
contrast to something like
semiconductors. The capital costs as
well to start a software business are
relatively low. So China's trading on
its strengths there. Yes, if they had
access to to leading edge Nvidia
products, then sure. I I I'm sure, but
but if you look at some external
benchmarking data, and this is coming
from the US, a site called Lifebench,
the leading
anthropic model is only in terms of its
performance premium. The premium's only
around 10% at the moment. So it's not to
suggest or in any way that China is
miles behind. It's competing neck and
neck with the US, although the US is
still likely to maintain some limited
technical lead.
>> How much does the cost advantage help
further AI adoption
in China because that could be the
strategy?
>> Well, I think this is going back to
first principles, the generic internet
model.
Build your user base, try and squeeze
out the competition, either give your
product away for free or at a very low
cost. And then once you gain critical
mass, then
you can focus on monetization. So I
think that's the generic internet model
that most of the Chinese companies are
playing at the moment. The problem is
whilst, you know, there's there's a
great track record of companies gaining
success. I mean, that's what Facebook
and others did
in the early days. The problem is at the
moment all these Chinese firms uh,
employing the same generic model uh, in
a very fragmented market, in a market
where it's very difficult to gain any
sort of sustainable competitive edge.
Uh, and as a consequence, um, you know,
the market is very fragmented, flooded
with supply, and none of these companies
are, um, making money at the moment. So,
really I think ultimately who wins will
come down to who's got the biggest
balance sheet, and who's got, you know,
long-term staying power. The other thing
that needs to happen in the industry,
sure they can look to, you know, drive
penetration in the market by offering
very low pricing at the moment, but
ultimately pricing, as we're seeing, has
to come up because it's unsustainable
economically.
>> Yeah. Commercially. Yeah.
>> Or commercially, I should say.
>> R- Robert, thank you so much. Robert Lea
there, our Bloomberg Intelligence senior
analyst. Right. Uh, we'll be back with a
quick market check. This is Bloomberg.
>> [music]
>> Who said Korea [music] was just all
about memory, right? It's spreading the
love. Here, power equipment makers are
seeing this rally [music] taking place.
By the way, Citronis out again with his
research called Moving the Markets on
that uh, specific one. If that makes you
curious, you [music] can read all about
it, of course, on the Bloomberg
terminal. Uh, and also other things
moving these markets. Speaking of uh,
the usual names seeing some upside here
today. It's a TSMC following that
massive move on Friday. Similar move
today of about 5% That's 10 10% uh, for
a stock this big. I mean, you can make a
similar argument really when you look at
Samsung and SK Hynix. Uh, s- 6 and 2% to
the upside. It's worth pointing out
though they did seem to be going the
opposite way of each other uh, in the
early innings of of the trade today. At
SMIC, we talked about this uh, with
Robert in case you missed that on the
deep sea moment, well 1.5 moment if you
think about it that way.
Just now here, 4.4% here
on that specific story. Okay, just
before we wrap things up, an update
here,
somewhat of an update on Iran and Axios
reporting here that this new proposal
[music] is on the table from the
Iranians to reopen the Strait of Hormuz.
Still some gains in the energy markets.
[music]
That's it from us here on the China
show. We'll see you all tomorrow.